# Code of Conduct for Nairobi GNU/ Linux Users Group

You can read about us [here](https://nairobilug.or.ke/pages/about-us.html)

As a community we welcome everyone, and encourage a friendly and positive
environment.

This code of conduct outlines our expectations for participants within the
community. We are committed to providing a welcoming and inspiring community for
all and expect our code of conduct to be honored. Anyone who violates this code
of conduct may be banned from the community.

Our open source community strives to:

- **Be friendly and patient.**

- **Be welcoming**: We strive to be a community that welcomes and supports
people of all backgrounds and identities. This includes, but is not limited to
members of any race, ethnicity, culture, national origin, colour, immigration
status, social and economic class, educational level, sex, sexual orientation,
gender identity and expression, age, size, family status, political belief,
religion, and mental and physical ability.

- **Be considerate**: Not all members of this community are as knowledgeable as
you may be. When answering questions, be polite, helpful and honest.

- **Be respectful**: Not all of us will agree all the time, but disagreement is
no excuse for poor behavior and poor manners. We might all experience some
frustration now and then, but we cannot allow that frustration to turn into a
personal attack. It’s important to remember that a community where people feel
uncomfortable or threatened is not a productive one.

- **Be collaborative**: Linux, Open Source, and Free Software are about
collaboration and working together. Collaboration reduces redundancy of work
done and improves the quality of our results. You should aim to collaborate with
other members of the this community, as well as members of other organizations
within the user group community. Your work should be done transparently and
ideas from NAILUG projects should be given back to the community when they are
made, not just when your project is completed. If you wish to work on new
initiatives or projects for NAILUG, don't feel obliged to have LUG-wide
agreement before you begin. Simply keep the NAILUG community informed of your
work, and publish your work in a way that allows outsiders to test, discuss and
contribute to your efforts.

- **Try to understand why we disagree**: Disagreements, both social and
technical, happen all the time. It is important that we resolve disagreements
and differing views constructively. Remember that we’re different. Diversity
contributes to the strength of our community, which is composed of people from
a wide range of backgrounds. Different people have different perspectives on
issues. Being unable to understand why someone holds a viewpoint doesn’t mean
that they’re wrong. Don’t forget that it is human to err and blaming each
other doesn’t get us anywhere. Instead, focus on helping to resolve issues and
learning from mistakes.

- **When you disagree, consult others**: Disagreements, both political and
technical, happen all the time and the NAILUG community is no exception. The
important goal is not to avoid disagreements or differing views but to resolve
them constructively.

- **When you are unsure, ask for help**: Nobody knows everything, and nobody is
expected to be perfect in the NAILUG community. Asking questions avoids many
problems down the road, and so questions are encouraged. Those who are asked
should be responsive and helpful. Don't ask to ask, just ask.

- **Step down considerately**: People come and go from any collaborative group.
When you leave or disengage from NAILUG, in whole or in part, we ask that you do
so in a way that minimizes disruption to the LUG. This is mainly important for
those providing volunteer services that others have come to depend on.

### Diversity Statement

We encourage everyone to participate and are committed to building a community
for all. Although we will fail at times, we seek to treat everyone both as
fairly and equally as possible. Whenever a participant has made a mistake, we
expect them to take responsibility for it. If someone has been harmed or
offended, it is our responsibility to listen carefully and respectfully, and do
our best to right the wrong.

Although this list cannot be exhaustive, we explicitly honor diversity in age,
gender, gender identity or expression, culture, ethnicity, language, national
origin, political beliefs, profession, race, religion, sexual orientation,
socioeconomic status, and technical ability. We will not tolerate discrimination
based on any of the protected characteristics above, including participants with
disabilities.

#### Mailing lists, IRC, Discord and Telegram Channels

Mailing lists, and other communication platforms are important parts of the
NAILUG community platform. This code of conduct applies very much to your
behavior in those forums too. Please follow these guidelines.

- Please use a valid email address to which direct responses can be made.

- Please avoid flamewars, trolling, personal attacks, and repetitive arguments.

### Attribution & Acknowledgements

This code of conduct is based on the Open Code of Conduct from the [TODO Group](https://github.com/todogroup/opencodeofconduct/) and [NCSU Linux Users' Group Code of Conduct](https://github.com/ncsulug/code-of-conduct).
